>> Speaker 1: Got some
questions from the online chat.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 1: When a company asks,
why should we hire you?
How would you proceed?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How would I ask that,
how would I personally answer that?
Man, guys you're not supposed
to be interviewing me.
I think that when you're answering this
question you should be thinking about,
what are your unique strengths?
And so
that would take some self reflection.
So let me self reflex.
So, I think my unique strengths
are distilling complex problems
into digestible pieces.
And that is important for teaching,
but it's also important for
designing a UI, which is just
an abstraction over a system.
Or even writing my code, which is also,
when I write a function,
that's an abstraction over a system,
right?
There's an input and output.
So I think I do that well,
I have experience doing that.
And also I'm nice, I don't know,
those are some reasons.
>> Speaker 1: I'd also add one point.
It's also really important if you
show interest in that company,
and the product, and
why you're excited about that product.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Speaker 1: I feel like a lot of
people are asking you for that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I see, yeah.
Why we should hire you, not necessarily
asking you about your strengths, but
asking about, how your strengths
play uniquely to that role?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you can try to remember with a job.
If you're on the phone,
you can always have your job posting up,
your resume up, and
any other notes that you want.
So that you can quickly reference, and
I always do that just so
that I don't get flabbergasted.
That was a good question.
>> Speaker 1: What do you think about the
online resume like stack over developers
for you to [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
I call that your web presents.
What do I think about it?
I think it's super important.
They're gonna Google you at every step
of the way right before they meet with
the interview,
they're gonna look at your LinkedIn.
They might check out your GitHub.
They'll probably have your resume.
So yeah, it's super important.
You wanna make sure that
they're consistent, right?
So if in your resumes it says something
different than your LinkedIn.
It could just be like the way that you're
formatting it, or something like that.
It can confuse people, and you wanna
think about, what is you narrative?
What is your story?
Where did you start?
How did you get to where you are now?
And kinda make sure that,
that lines up correctly,
cuz people trust you and
they feel like you're consistent.
And so, I would just be mindful
of that in your web presence.
Especially old,
old logs that you might have
that might be not really consistent
with your story anymore.
It might be very basic programming stuff,
and maybe you want to down play that,
and maybe you wanna hide that post or
something like that.
So, super important, and
that goes with sort of
the resume application
piece of the process.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 1: What do you think about
books like Cracking the Code Interview?
Is that still considered
the best technical resource, or
prepping [CROSSTALK] question?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah,
I mean, other than Frontend Masters,
I think that Cracking the Coding Interview
is a really good resource.
[LAUGH] Yeah,
I use Cracking the Coding Interview
when I prepare for
these kind of workshops.
Also, when I do my own
interview preparation.
I have a whole list of resources
that I'll send you guys after, but
Cracking the Coding Interview
is one that I recommend.
It's just this huge book, and
it has all the basic computer science
fundamentals that you have learned about,
but maybe never fully learned.
Even if you went to college,
and took that class, and
somehow passed,
you might not fully understand them.
So it really this tells it well,
it's a lot of practice problems
with solutions that are explained and
intuitive hands on stuff.
So, that's nice, it's a nice resource,
some other resources.
So the thing that I wouldn't recommend and
I used to recommend.
Because I first learned data structure
algorithm through taking computer science
classes.
Like on books some things like that.
I would recommend my
favorite algorithm textbook.
But I realize that's not realistic and
necessary for people who are just trying
to pass their technical interview.
It's a little too academic,
it's a little too, it takes it too far.
When really you just need a basic
understanding of the concept so
then you can apply it to
the different problems.
You don't need to know the name
of particular algorithms, or
things like that.
>> Speaker 1: If you're in
an on sight interview, and
you're given the question that you
don't know, how do you handle that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well,
you probably will never know it.
So in terms of technical interviews,
well, there are themes,
and I'll talk a little bit about
the themes throughout this class.
That you'll see with particular questions,
but they always have some twist so
it's not about knowing something
ahead of time and memorizing.
It's really about learning the concept,
learning how to solve a problem and
break it down, then knowing the answer.
But if it's not a question
that I can solve,
or I get stuck I think it's
just important to be honest.
So a lot of us when we're in
a interview setting we feel like
we have to pretend especially if you're
suffering from imposter syndrome
where you feel like everyone else knows
all the stuff and you don't know anything.
And you're just fake and
they're gonna find out any moment,
especially in this on sight interview.
You might feel like you need to pretend
like you know things you don't know.
Don't do that, this whole fake it till
you make it, you can only take that so
far, right?
When you get to a technical question,
you can't pretend to know the answer and
you shouldn't just make it up.
You can make inferences, so you can say,
if someone says, what is a quad tree?
And you could be like, well I'm not
really sure, I've never done too
much work with quad trees, but
I've done work with binary trees.
And binary trees just a tree which
has two child notes, so maybe,
I could guess, just say it,
just be honest,
that a quad tree is a tree where
a node at most can have four nodes.
You could just but just be open with
it and communicate it, like that,
versus like quad tree,
definitely four children.
And in your head you're, like, God, I
hope they don't ask a follow up question.
[LAUGH] Sure.
>> Speaker 3: So one thing,
I started with that a little bit is that
sometimes I'll have heard of the concept,
and they''ll be one sentence on it
in lecture or something like that.
And so I'll phrase it to be, like,
yeah, I know what it is, but
then I'll just, kind of realize like no,
I don't fully grasp this.
So how do I spin that and make sure that
I'm coming off as authentic like yeah I
know what the concept is, I just
haven't worked with it coming off as
inauthentic because I did start it off as,
I know what that is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, so do you have a specific example?
>> Speaker 3: In one of the interviews
that I had for a book camp, and
I know what it is now, don't worry,
[LAUGH] But they were trying
to communicate stack to me.
And it was kind of like
a recursion question, and
they're like okay, so
why is it that when we put the number
after the call to the function
it's printing it out backwards.
Or whatever the numbers were
going downwards from five and
then afterwards It was
going upwards from five.
And I thought I knew what it was like
I was like yeah, that makes sense and
I tried to talk through it.
But then I realized that I
knew what the word was, and
I remembered talking about it in
a lecture, but I couldn't on the spot.
I needed ten minutes to just
gather my thoughts, but obviously,
you don't have that when
you're in front of the person.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah,
no, that's a good example.
So, I think how I would handle that is
that,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Talk
through your thought process, cuz
that's what they're really looking for.
Talk through your thought process when
you hit a speed bump in that process,
you can just day maybe that isn't
exactly what I thought it was.
And then,
if you identify where your understanding
is different from like whatever
reality is happening in your code.
You'd be like I expected to do this,
but it's actually doing that, and
then you could be like I
wonder what would cause that?
And then, try to think about it, but
posing that like could help
the interviewer give you a hint.
So going through it, thinking about
saying what you would expect.
Finding out that maybe it
didn't meet your expectations.
This is just like classic debugging,
right?
I expected when I clicked
on this button for
the window to a model,
to pop up but it didn't.
And then you could think okay, what
are the reasons why that didn't happen?
Okay, so, we have the click handler,
I'm toggling a class
maybe, a display you know like
a hide show kind of class.
Is there an error in the terminal,
maybe it's just my app's broken, and
none of my click handlers are working.
So thinking through what
could be causing that gap,
that's how I would handle it, I think.
Yeah, I think it is good to have
these experiences because it makes
you realize like where
are the bounds of your knowledge.
So obviously, in an interview was asked
about different application state models.
And I was like, yeah,
reacting to directional and
then he kept asking me question, maybe I
don't actually understand how this works.
And that was really important for
me, because I was like, no,
I really need to study up on this and
really really understand this.
Because it's important to
me that I master my craft.
So,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
any more questions?
These are great questions.
>> Speaker 1: I just have a tiny
comment when I was interviewing,
in the early stages,
I always failed the technical interviews.
Because I didn't understand
the basics of closure and
scope, and the stuff that you teach and
fundamentals to functional, and
also Kyle Simpson Deep
JavaScript Foundations.
Like back when front
masters was a side project.
One subject those courses at fully pass
the technical-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now you can get any job.
>> Speaker 1: What's that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now you can get any job.
>> Speaker 1: Now,
I can get any job [LAUGH].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 1: Well obviously,
Frontend Masters worked out so,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 1: But
those two course are for me,
really helped as far as understanding
cuz people will always ask
you what's closure because you're
talking about that kind of thing.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those kind of questions like closure,
prototype inheritance or
language specific questions, that is
a type of question you might be asked.
That is not a data structure or
algorithm one that you can reference
on different Master's courses.
What Mark mentioned,
my JavaScript fundamentals course.
Also, Kyle Simpsons Deep Foundation
course will cover that.
Some other kinds of questions that
you might need to prepare for
that aren't data structures.
And algorithm specific
are there's some logic and
math ones out there that I don't teach
because I'm not very good at those.
And I think they're bad
interview questions, but
sometimes they'll still ask them anyway.
Usually have bigger companies
those logic in math questions.
There are language specifics then there
is domain more front end back end,
or full stock kind of
questions about sort of,
how a web application in general,
how they work?
How does the Internet work,
and then recursion is more of
a computer science-y question,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
it falls under data structures and
algorithms because we use them a lot in
algorithms,and it's a technique for
algorithms.
Cool.
When we talk about that,
if you're interested in recursion and
recursive algorithms.
We talk about that for, I don't know,
how many hours last workshop.
Maybe two or three?
And we just like recursed all day.
We won't be doing too much for
recursion today, so